DOCS-10509-jms-publish-operation-kt (#1396)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/jms-publish.adoc

= Publish Messages Using the JMS Connector
:keywords: jms, connector, publish
:page-aliases: connectors::jms/jms-publish.adoc

> Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish* operation enables you to create a new JMS message and send it to the specified destination, be it a queue or a topic. With the operation, you can configure not only the content of the message, but also all the headers that may be need.

Reviewer: You can begin here with "The" because it refers to operation: "the operation":
```suggestion
The Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish* operation enables you to create a new JMS message and send it to the specified destination, whether it is a queue or a topic. Using the operation, you can configure not only the content of the message, but also any necessary headers.
```
Do these types of edits make sense to you? They have a lot to do with the sound of native English, and also to do with the opposite: clarifying how we sometimes speak for nonnative readers. Feel free to ask me to explain individual edits any time that they seem random to you.

== Publish a Message to a Queue

> When you use the *Publish* operation in its default form, the connector publishes whatever is in the message payload to the specified queue. In the following example, you configure the operation to publish a message to a queue specified in the *Destination* field:

Reviewer: Will the audience understand the distinction that we are making with "in its default form"?

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `invoiceQueue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `invoiceQueue`.
```

.Publish operation configuration to a queue
image::jms-publish-config-1.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set the Destination field to the name of the Destination where the message is sent]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `destination` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `destination` configurations look like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish destination="invoiceQueue" config-ref="JMS_config"/>
----

> If the payload is not in the correct format, and you need to make a transformation, you could place a DataWeave transformation before the *Publish* operation, but that would cause the message payload to change and impact the operation placed after the operation. +

Reviewer: "in its default form" = "not in the correct format"? As above, need we clarify what this means?

Reviewer: Consider...:
```suggestion
If you must transform the payload because it is not in the correct format, you could place a DataWeave transformation before the *Publish* operation, but that would cause the message payload to change and impact the operation placed after the operation. +
```

> To avoid this impact, place the DataWeave transformation inside the *Publish* operation. The transformation generates the content to publish without producing a side effect on the message in transit. In the following example, you configure the transformation inside the operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this impact, place the DataWeave transformation inside the *Publish* operation. The transformation generates the content to publish without affecting the message in transit. In the following example, you configure the transformation inside the operation:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `invoiceQueue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `invoiceQueue`.
```

</jms:publish>
----

== Publish a Message to a Topic

> The *Publish* operation can also publish a message to a specified topic destination. All the configurations of the operation and the message are identical, you just need to configure the *Destination type* field to *TOPIC*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Publish* operation can also publish a message to a specified topic destination. Because all the configurations of the operation and the message are identical, you need only configure the *Destination type* field to *TOPIC*.
```

In the following example, you configure the operation to publish a message to a topic destination:

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `invoiceEvents`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `invoiceEvents`.
```

. Set the *Destination type* to *TOPIC*.

.Publish operation configuration to a topic destination
image::jms-publish-config-3.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set the Destination type field to TOPIC]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `destinationType` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `destinationType` configurations look like this:
```

</jms:publish>
----

== Customize Message Delivery

> Each JMS message has a set of headers that enables you to communicate metadata like the time to live, or the priority of the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each JMS message has a set of headers that enables you to communicate metadata such as time to live or message priority.
```

=== Configure a Priority Queue

> To configure a priority queue, set the *Priority* field to a value different than the default:

Reviewer: This is OK either way, but we use "from" for consistency, per style guide:
```suggestion
To configure a priority queue, set the *Priority* field to a value different from the default:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `priorityQueue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `priorityQueue`.
```

. In the *Publish Configuration* section, set the *Priority* field to `attributes.queryParams.priority`.

.Publish operation Priority configuration
image::jms-publish-config-4.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set a value in the Priority field]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `priority` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:publish>` and `priority` configurations look like this:
```

Reviewer: If you want to refer to a combined configuration, then that configuration _looks_ like this.
If you want to refer to more than one configurations, then they _look_ like this.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish priority="#[attributes.queryParams.priority]" destination="priorityQueue" config-ref="JMS_config"/>
----

=== Configure a Time To Live

> Every JMS message published is sent with a time to live header that declares how long the message is available for someone to consume it before it evicts. In the operation, configure the *Time to live* and *Time to live unit* fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every JMS message published is sent with a time-to-live header that declares how long the message is available for consumption before it expires. In the operation, configure the *Time to live* and *Time to live unit* fields:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `vars.destination`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `vars.destination`.
```

. In the *Publish Configuration* section, set the *Time to live* field to `vars.timeToLive`.
. Set the *Time to live unit* field to *SECONDS*.

.Publish operation Time to live configuration
image::jms-publish-config-5.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set a value for the Time to live field, and set the Time to live unit to SECONDS]

> In the XML editor, the `timeToLive` and `timeToLiveUnit` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `timeToLive` and `timeToLiveUnit` configurations look like this:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:publish  timeToLive="#[vars.timeToLive]" timeToLiveUnit="SECONDS"
              destination="#[vars.destination]" config-ref="JMS_config"/>
----

> If you are using JMS 2.0 specification, you can also control the delivery delay of the message, which is how long to wait before making the message available to consumers. In the operation, configure the *Delivery delay* and *Delivery delay unit* fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the JMS 2.0 specification, you can also control the message delivery delay, which is how long to wait before making the message available to consumers. In the operation, configure the *Delivery delay* and *Delivery delay unit* fields:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `vars.destination`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `vars.destination`.
```

. Set the *Delivery delay* field to `${msgInitialDelay}`.

> . Set the *Delivery delay unit* field to *MILLISECONDS*.

Reviewer: If this is a UI choice, I think we want to say...:
```suggestion
. In the *Delivery delay unit* field, click *MILLISECONDS*.
```

.Publish operation Delivery Delay configuration
image::jms-publish-config-6.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set a value for the Delivery Delay field, and set the Delivery Delay Unit field to MILLISECONDS]

> In the XML editor, the `deliveryDelay` and `deliveryDelayUnit` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `deliveryDelay` and `deliveryDelayUnit` configurations looks like this:
```

----

== Configure a Reply Destination

> For the cases where you need an asynchronous reply to the message being sent, the *Publish* operation enables you to declare any reply-to destination in the *Reply to* field. The destination is communicated as a JMS header to the consumer of the message, and is the destination where to send the reply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you require an asynchronous reply to the sent message, using the *Publish* operation enables you to declare any reply-to destination in the *Reply to* field. The reply destination is communicated as a JMS header to the consumer of the message.
```

In the following example, you configure the reply-to destination:

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `vars.destination`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `vars.destination`.
```

. Set the *Reply to* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination name* field to `${completionEventsDestination}`.

> . Set the *Destination type* field to *TOPIC*.

Reviewer: ditto comment at Line 133

.Publish operation Reply To configuration
image::jms-publish-config-7.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set the Reply To to Edit inline, set a name for the Destination name field, and set the Destination type field to TOPIC]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:reply-to>`, `destination` and `destinationType` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:reply-to>`, `destination` and `destinationType` configurations look like this:
```

</jms:publish>
----

== Configure the Correlation ID

> The *Publish* operation enables you to configure a correlation ID for the outgoing message in the *Correlation ID* field.

Reviewer: Does your audience know what a correlation ID is?

> First you need to configure wether or not you want to send the correlation ID when publishing the message. To do this configure the *Send correlation id* field to any of the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you must configure whether you want to send the correlation ID when publishing the message. If so, configure the *Send correlation id* field to any of the following options:
```

Reviewer: "configure the field"?
Typically, fields require user entry: ``
Or there is a group of options, one of which you click: **

* *ALWAYS* +
Always sends the header
 * *NEVER* +
Never sends the header
 * *AUTO* +

> The default value, uses the application configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value, which uses the application configuration
```

> Then, you can either use the correlation ID of the event that is sending the message, or you can configure your own custom correlation ID in the message builder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can either use the correlation ID of the event that is sending the message, or you can configure your own custom correlation ID in the message builder:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `attributes.headers.replyTo.destination`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `attributes.headers.replyTo.destination`.
```

> . Set the *Send correlation id* field to *ALWAYS*.

Reviewer: ditto edit line 133

. Set the *Correlation ID* field to `attributes.headers.correlationId`.

.Publish operation Correlation ID configuration
image::jms-publish-config-8.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set the Send correlation ID field to ALWAYS, and set the correlation ID field to your custom value]

> In the XML editor, the `endCorrelationId` and `correlationId` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `endCorrelationId` and `correlationId` configurations look like this:
```

</jms:publish>
----

== Configure Message Properties

> Every JMS message can have a set of properties, which you can use in many different ways, like to provide compatibility with other messaging systems or create custom message selectors.

Reviewer: Can have a set of properties, or does have a set of properties? Maybe...:
```suggestion
Use properties in your JMS message to do things like establishing compatibility with other messaging systems or creating custom message selectors.
```

Some of these properties are well-known JMS standards, but others depend on the implementation or custom user configurations. The *Publish* operation enables you to configure all these properties directly in the message.

=== Configure User Properties

> Whenever you need to set a property for an outgoing message, configure the *Properties* field in the message and do an inline declaration of a map using DataWeave:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever you must set a property for an outgoing message, configure the *Properties* field in the message and perform an inline declaration of a map using DataWeave:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `${bridgeDestination}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `${bridgeDestination}`.
```

. Set the *Destination type* field to *TOPIC*.
. Set the *Body* field to `"bridged_" ++ payload`.
. Set the *Properties* field to the following DataWeave code:

[source,DataWeave,linenums]
----
{
    AUTH_TYPE: 'jwt',
    AUTH_TOKEN: attributes.queryParams.token
}
----

.Publish operation Properties configuration
image::jms-publish-config-9.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set the Body and Properties field]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:body>` and `<jms:properties>` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:body>` and `<jms:properties>` configurations look like this:
```

</jms:publish>
----

=== Configure JMSX Properties

> The JMSX properties are a set of well-known properties defined in the JMS spec, containing metadata regarding the message. In the following example, you configure these properties in the *JMSX Properties* field of the message:

Reviewer: Consider
```suggestion
The JMS spec includes JMSX properties, a set of well-known properties that contain metadata about the message. In the following example, you configure these properties in the *JMSX Properties* field of the message:
```

. In your Studio flow, select the *Publish* operation.

> . Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example `${bridgeDestination}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to the queue name, for example, `${bridgeDestination}`.
```

. Set the *Destination type* field to *TOPIC*.
. Set the *Body* field to `"bridged_" ++ payload`.
. Set the *JMSX Properties* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Jmsx group id* field to `vars.currentGroup`.

> . Set the *Jmsx user id* field `${username}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Jmsx user id* field to`${username}`.
```

.Publish operation JMSX Properties configuration
image::jms-publish-config-10.png[In the Publish configuration screen, set the JMSX Properties field to Edit Inline and set the Jmsx group id and Jmsx user id fields]

> In the XML editor, the `<jms:jmsx-properties>`, `jmsxGroupID` amd `jmsxUserID` configurations looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the XML editor, the `<jms:jmsx-properties>`, `jmsxGroupID`, and `jmsxUserID` configurations look like this:
```
